---
title: "Thermal study of a passive cooling device operating through a bubble lifting CLTPT of NOVEC 7000 with a two-fluid condenser"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
date: 2021-01-01
venue: 'International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijheatmasstransfer.2021.121530'
citation: 'M.A. Gómez, R. Bellas, A. González-Gil, A. Cacabelos, and A. Larrañaga. Thermal study of a passive cooling device operating through a bubble lifting CLTPT of NOVEC 7000 with a two-fluid condenser. International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer, 177:121530, 2021.'
---

In the framework of cooling technology applied to electronics, multiple setups and coolants have been used to achieve effective methods to remove high heat density fluxes. In this paper, an innovative device based on the combination of two fluids in a closed loop two-phase thermosiphon is proposed as an effective passive system to cool electronic components. The cooling device is an external flow boiling system that uses NOVEC 7000 as a circulating boiling fluid to transport heat from an evaporator capsule to a condenser. The bubble lifting effect in the closed-loop thermosiphon accelerates the fluid circulation and creates a natural jet impingement effect in the evaporator. In the condenser, the NOVEC bubbles ascend through a water pool, achieving a highly effective heat exchange between the fluids. The advantage of this two-fluid condenser system is highly efficient condensation since the vapour of NOVEC is condensed in a water pool, which produces a high heat transfer between the fluids and is not sensitive to the presence of non-condensable gases. In addition, the movement of the NOVEC bubbles produces high agitation in the water that enhances the heat transfer to the condenser walls. The system was tested under different working conditions with several power generation rates in the heat source and operating at atmospheric pressure and in a vacuum. The system was tested to assess the effect of water in the condenser, and heat transfer coefficients were calculated for the setup operating with and without water. In addition, a numerical model was developed to predict the different temperatures in the system and extrapolate the results for different operating conditions. Several tests were performed, and the results showed robust working of the system and good control of temperatures in the element to be cooled. The system was able to maintain a temperature lower than 70 °C in the aluminium block working with a heat flux of 220 kW/m2 without any extra energy consumption. The effect of water in the condenser was shown to be effective in improving heat transfer and coolant condensation. The heat transfer coefficients in the condenser can be improved by 22 to 133%. The model for temperature prediction showed reasonably good results for most of the experiments regarding both transient behaviour and stabilization temperatures.
